<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IX: The Purple Bird-of-Paradise</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<h4 epub:type="title">The Purple Bird-of-Paradise</h4>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Polynesia was waiting for us in the front porch. She looked full of some important news.</p>
			<p>“Doctor,” said she, “the Purple Bird-of-Paradise has arrived!”</p>
			<p>“At last!” said the Doctor. “I had begun to fear some accident had befallen her. And how is Miranda?”</p>
			<p>From the excited way in which the Doctor fumbled his key into the lock I guessed that we were not going to get our tea right away, even now.</p>
			<p>“Oh, she seemed all right when she arrived,” said Polynesia⁠—“tired from her long journey of course but otherwise all right. But what <em>do</em> you think? That mischief-making sparrow, Cheapside, insulted her as soon as she came into the garden. When I arrived on the scene she was in tears and was all for turning round and going straight back to Brazil tonight. I had the hardest work persuading her to wait till you came. She’s in the study. I shut Cheapside in one of your bookcases and told him I’d tell you exactly what had happened the moment you got home.”</p>
			<p>The Doctor frowned, then walked silently and quickly to the study.</p>
			<p>Here we found the candles lit; for the daylight was nearly gone. Dab-Dab was standing on the floor mounting guard over one of the glass-fronted bookcases in which Cheapside had been imprisoned. The noisy little sparrow was still fluttering angrily behind the glass when we came in.</p>
			<p>In the centre of the big table, perched on the inkstand, stood the most beautiful bird I have ever seen. She had a deep violet-colored breast, scarlet wings and a long, long sweeping tail of gold. She was unimaginably beautiful but looked dreadfully tired. Already she had her head under her wing; and she swayed gently from side to side on top of the inkstand like a bird that has flown long and far.</p>
			<p>“Sh!” said Dab-Dab. “Miranda is asleep. I’ve got this little imp Cheapside in here. Listen, Doctor: for Heaven’s sake send that sparrow away before he does any more mischief. He’s nothing but a vulgar little nuisance. We’ve had a perfectly awful time trying to get Miranda to stay. Shall I serve your tea in here, or will you come into the kitchen when you’re ready?”</p>
			<p>“We’ll come into the kitchen, Dab-Dab,” said the Doctor. “Let Cheapside out before you go, please.”</p>
			<p>Dab-Dab opened the bookcase-door and Cheapside strutted out trying hard not to look guilty.</p>
			<p>“Cheapside,” said the Doctor sternly, “what did you say to Miranda when she arrived?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t say nothing, Doc, straight I didn’t. That is, nothing much. I was picking up crumbs off the gravel path when she comes swanking into the garden, turning up her nose in all directions, as though she owned the earth⁠—just because she’s got a lot of colored plumage. A London sparrow’s as good as her any day. I don’t hold by these gawdy bedizened foreigners nohow. Why don’t they stay in their own country?”</p>
			<p>“But what did you say to her that got her so offended?”</p>
			<p>“All I said was, ‘You don’t belong in an English garden; you ought to be in a milliner’s window.’ That’s all.”</p>
			<p>“You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Cheapside. Don’t you realize that this bird has come thousands of miles to see me⁠—only to be insulted by your impertinent tongue as soon as she reaches my garden? What do you mean by it?⁠—If she had gone away again before I got back tonight I would never have forgiven you⁠—Leave the room.”</p>
			<p>Sheepishly, but still trying to look as though he didn’t care, Cheapside hopped out into the passage and Dab-Dab closed the door.</p>
			<p>The Doctor went up to the beautiful bird on the inkstand and gently stroked its back. Instantly its head popped out from under its wing.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
