<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<i>THE SIXTH CHAPTER</i>
				<br/>
				<small>THE JUDGE’S DOG</small>
			</h2>
			<p>At first there was a dead silence in the Court. Then everybody began whispering or giggling at the same time, till the whole room sounded like a great hive of bees. Many people seemed to be shocked; most of them were amused; and a few were angry.</p>
			<p>Presently up sprang the nasty lawyer with the long nose.</p>
			<p>“I protest, Your Honor,” he cried, waving his arms wildly to the judge. “I object. The dignity of this court is in peril. I protest.”</p>
			<p>“I am the one to take care of the dignity of this court,” said the judge.</p>
			<p>Then Mr. Jenkyns got up again. (If it hadn’t been such a serious matter, it was almost like a Punch-and-Judy show: somebody was always popping down and somebody else popping up).</p>
			<p>“If there is any doubt on the score of our being able to do as we say, Your Honor will have no objection, I trust, to the Doctor’s giving the Court a demonstration of his powers—of showing that he actually can understand the speech of animals?”</p>
			<p>I thought I saw a twinkle of amusement come into the old judge’s eyes as he sat considering a moment before he answered.</p>
			<p>“No,” he said at last, “I don’t think so.” Then he turned to the Doctor.</p>
			<p>“Are you quite sure you can do this?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Quite, Your Honor,” said the Doctor—“quite sure.”</p>
			<p>“Very well then,” said the judge. “If you can satisfy us that you really are able to understand canine testimony, the dog shall be admitted as a witness. I do not see, in that case, how I could object to his being heard. But I warn you that if you are trying to make a laughing-stock of this Court it will go hard with you.”</p>
			<p>“I protest, I protest!” yelled the long-nosed Prosecutor. “This is a scandal, an outrage to the Bar!”</p>
			<p>“Sit down!” said the judge in a very stern voice.</p>
			<p>“What animal does Your Honor wish me to talk with?” asked the Doctor.</p>
			<p>“I would like you to talk to my own dog,” said the judge. “He is outside in the cloak-room. I will have him brought in; and then we shall see what you can do.”</p>
			<p>Then someone went out and fetched the judge’s dog, a lovely great Russian wolf-hound with slender legs and a shaggy coat. He was a proud and beautiful creature.</p>
			<p>“Now, Doctor,” said the judge, “did you ever see this dog before?—Remember you are in the witness-stand and under oath.”</p>
			<p>“No, Your Honor, I never saw him before.”</p>
			<p>“Very well then, will you please ask him to tell you what I had for supper last night? He was with me and watched me while I ate.”</p>
			<p>Then the Doctor and the dog started talking to one another in signs and sounds; and they kept at it for quite a long time. And the Doctor began to giggle and get so interested that he seemed to forget all about the Court and the judge and everything else.</p>
			<p>“What a time he takes!” I heard a fat woman in front of me whispering. “He’s only pretending. Of course he can’t do it! Who ever heard of talking to a dog? He must think we’re children.”</p>
			<p>“Haven’t you finished yet?” the judge asked the Doctor. “It shouldn’t take that long just to ask what I had for supper.”</p>
			<p>“Oh no, Your Honor,” said the Doctor. “The dog told me that long ago. But then he went on to tell me what you did after supper.”</p>
			<p>“Never mind that,” said the judge. “Tell me what answer he gave you to my question.”</p>
			<p>“He says you had a mutton-chop, two baked potatoes, a pickled walnut and a glass of ale.”</p>
			<p>The Honorable Eustace Beauchamp Conckley went white to the lips.</p>
			<p>“Sounds like witchcraft,” he muttered. “I never dreamed—”</p>
			<p>“And after your supper,” the Doctor went on, “he says you went to see a prize-fight and then sat up playing cards for money till twelve o’clock and came home singing, ‘We won’t get—’”</p>
			<p>“That will do,” the judge interrupted, “I am satisfied you can do as you say. The prisoner’s dog shall be admitted as a witness.”</p>
			<p>“I protest, I object!” screamed the Prosecutor. “Your Honor, this is—”</p>
			<p>“Sit down!” roared the judge. “I say the dog shall be heard. That ends the matter. Put the witness in the stand.”</p>
			<p>And then for the first time in the solemn history of England a dog was put in the witness-stand of Her Majesty’s Court of Assizes. And it was I, Tommy Stubbins (when the Doctor made a sign to me across the room) who proudly led Bob up the aisle, through the astonished crowd, past the frowning, spluttering, long-nosed Prosecutor, and made him comfortable on a high chair in the witness-box; from where the old bulldog sat scowling down over the rail upon the amazed and gaping jury.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
